Concept: Commands and Arguments (#699)
exercism/bash: concepts/commands-and-arguments/introduction.md

# Introduction

## Shells

A _shell_ is a program that allows you to enter commands for interacting with the operating system.
Shells can be graphical: your desktop environment that you use with a mouse or trackpad is a shell.
We will focus on command-line interfaces, where you type commands and the results are (usually) printed on your terminal.

There are many different command-line shells.
Windows offers **cmd** and **powershell**.

> Mac and Linux offer "Unix shells", of which there are many.

Reviewer: It is quoted, and so to me suggests an area of topic in which I _could_ investigate, could find out why it was "air quoted" in this use.

I am pretty sure there is no need to open the can from our side, while it does give a point of interest for those that want to dig deeper, that want to know that this is "similar" but not quite "that".

The default shell for Mac is **zsh**.

> **csh** is a legacy shell with C-like syntax.

Reviewer: I like the suggestion to add the summary.  It is also found in many Windows environments as well, since mingw is also found on many Windows systems.  Especially once you install git  there.

> One of the very earliest shells is the Bourne shell, **sh**.

Author: In the previous paragraph, the shell names are in bold. Here too.

> One of the very earliest shells is the Bourne shell, **sh**.

Reviewer: I would say that when talking about it as a name the bold is good, while referencing it as the command, then backticks are good.

In time, this was the basis for the standardized POSIX shell.
Many shells are based on the POSIX shell, some providing additional interactive or programming functionality.

**Bash** is based on the POSIX shell.
It is the default shell on most Linux systems.
Bash provides many facilities that make it an enjoyable interactive shell, including:

* a fully customizable prompt,
* the ability to recall and modify commands from history,
* the ability to manipulate running processes,
* aliases that can reduce typing.

This track is not about how to use bash as an interactive shell.
It is about learning to write programs using bash.
The emphasis will be on using _just_ bash to solve problems, although there are no restrictions on calling out to external tools.

> 

Author: I'm treating "bash" like "zsh" and "csh" -- only capitalized. at the start of a sentence.

> 

Reviewer: Except I see that Bash is capitalized here, not only capitalized at the start of the sentence, as these three sentences do not start with Bash, while one ends with Bash.

The exception being if a command has been specified to run asynchronously (in the background).
Don't worry too much about this case yet — we'll learn about how that works later on.

Any command line example in this guide can also be used in a script.

Making a script is easy.
Begin by making a new file, and put this on the first line:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
```

This line is called an _interpreter directive_ (it is also called a _hashbang_ or **_shebang_**).
It specifies that `/bin/bash` is to be used as the interpreter when the file is used as the executable in a command.
When the OS's kernel executes a _non-binary file_, it reads the first line of the file.
If the line begins with `#!`, the kernel uses the line to determine the interpreter to relay the file to.
(There are other valid ways to do this as well, see below.)
The `#!` must be at the very start of the file, with no spaces or blank lines before it.
Our script's commands will appear on separate lines below this.

Tip — Instead of `#!/bin/bash` , you could use

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
```

`env` searches `$PATH` for the executable named by its first argument (in this case, "bash").

> For a more detailed explanation of this technique and how it differs from plain ol' `#!/bin/bash`, see [this question in StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16365130/what-is-the-difference-between-usr-bin-env-bash-and-usr-bin-bash/16365367#16365367).

Reviewer: Yes, please!  Reference links are nicer to read locally in plain text.

For example, `[` is a bash builtin, while `[[` is a bash keyword; they are both used to test for a variety of conditions.
But the `[[` keyword has some extra functionality.
For example, it provides the `=~` operator that does regular expression testing.

```bash
$ [[ "hello world" =~ e.*o ]]   # returns a "success" status
$ [ "hello world" =~ e.*o ]
bash: [: =~: binary operator expected
```

The string comparison operators `<` and `>` are another example of how keywords parse the code differently.
Within `[[...]]`, these operators do not need any special care.

```bash
$ if [[ "$USER" < "n" ]]; then
    echo "$USER is in the first half of the alphabet"
fi
# => glennj is in the first half of the alphabet
```

But within `[...]` you must quote or escape them to prevent the shell from parsing them as redirection operators.

```bash
$ if [ "$USER" < "n" ]; then
    echo "$USER is in the first half of the alphabet"
fi
# => bash: n: No such file or directory

$ if [ "$USER" \< "n" ]; then
    echo "$USER is in the first half of the alphabet"
fi
# => glennj is in the first half of the alphabet
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Introduction

> Before we start, what is the bash track on Exercism about?

Reviewer 2: `bash` or `Bash`?

> Before we start, what is the bash track on Exercism about?

Author: Right, the [manual capitalizes it](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html)

It is about learning to write programs using bash.
The particular emphasis is using only bash to solve problems, but there are no restrictions on calling out to external tools.

It is not about how to use bash as an interactive shell.
You won't learn about how to customize your prompt, how to configure your command history, or other interactive-only features.

On with the lesson!

## Bash Fundamentals: Commands and Arguments

Bash reads commands from its input (which is usually either a terminal or a file).

> Each line of input that it reads is treated as a _command_ — an instruction to be carried out.

Author: Too early to talk about that I think.

(There are a few advanced cases, such as commands that span multiple lines, that will be gotten to later.)

Bash divides each line into words that are demarcated by a whitespace character (spaces and tabs).
The first word of the line is the name of the command to be executed.
All the remaining words become _arguments_ to that command (options, filenames, etc.).

Assume we're in an empty directory... (to try these commands, create an empty directory called `test` and enter that directory by running: `mkdir test; cd test`):

```bash
$ ls              # List files in the current directory (no output, no files).
$ touch a b c     # Create files 'a', 'b', and 'c'.
$ ls              # List files again, and this time outputs: 'a', 'b', and 'c'.
a  b  c
```

The command `ls` prints out the names of the files in the current directory.
The first time we run the list command we get no output, because there are no files yet.

> The `#` character at the start of a word indicates a _comment_.

Author: ```
The `#` character starts a _comment_.
```

rm: cannot remove `your': No such file or directory
rm: cannot remove `head.mp3': No such file or directory
$ ls                                          # List files in the current directory: It is still there.
The secret voice in your head.mp3             # But your file 'secret' is now gone!
```

We need to make sure we quote filenames properly.
If we don't, we'll end up deleting the wrong things!
`rm` takes filenames as arguments.
If our filenames have spaces and we do not quote them, Bash thinks each word is a separate argument.
Bash hands each argument to `rm` separately.
Like individually wrapped slices of processed cheese, `rm` treats each argument as a separate file.

In the above example, `rm` tried to delete a file for each word in the filename of the song, rather than keeping the filename intact.
That caused our file secret to be deleted, and our song to remain behind!

This is what we should have done:

```bash
$ rm "The secret voice in your head.mp3"
```

Arguments are separated from the command name and from each other by a whitespace.
This is important to remember.
For example, the following is wrong:

```bash
$ [-f file]
bash: [-f: command not found
```

> This is intended to test for the existence of a file named "file".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is intended to test for the existence of a file named `file`.
```

It's reasonable to assume that whitespace around `[` and `]` doesn't matter, but `[` is actually a command, and it requires its last argument to be `]`.
(We will cover the `[` command in more detail later.) 

> Therefore, we must separate `[` from `-f` and `]` from `file,.` otherwise Bash will think we are trying to execute a command named `[-f` with a single argument `file]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, we must separate `[` from `-f` and `]` from `file`.
Otherwise Bash will think we are trying to execute a command named `[-f` with a single argument `file]`.
```

The correct command separates all arguments with whitespace:

```bash
$ [ -f file ]
```

> (We see a lot of people who are confused by this behavior; they think that they can omit the whitespace between `[` and its arguments, so we need to present this particular example early.)

Reviewer 2: Is this is note to reviewers or readers?

Author: This is on the bash guide: https://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashGuide/CommandsAndArguments

Keep it or reword it?

Reviewer 2: Note, Wooledge is a Wiki. Anything we copy/paste then change, that change can also be applied upstream.

> And, if our filename contains whitespace or other special characters, it should also be quoted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If our filename contains whitespace or other special characters, it should also be quoted:
```

```bash
$ [ -f "my file" ]
```

## Review:

> _Arguments_: These are additional words specified after the command ('`ls -l foo`' executes ls with two arguments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Arguments_: These are additional words specified after the command (`ls -l foo` executes `ls` with two arguments).
```

_Quotes_: The two forms of quotes, single and double (`'` and `"`), are used to group words and can protect special characters.
The difference between `'` and `"` will be discussed later.

Tip — **Always** quote sentences or strings that belong together, even if it's not absolutely necessary.

> This developed practice will reduce the risk of human error in the scripts. (e.g. quoting a sentence of an `echo` command).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Developing this practice will reduce the risk of human error in the scripts (e.g. quoting a sentence of an `echo` command).
```

## Strings

The term _string_ refers to a sequence of characters which is treated as a single unit.
The term is used loosely throughout this guide, as well as in almost every other programming language.

In Bash programming, almost _everything_ is a string.

> When we type a command, the command's name is a string and each argument is a string; variable names are strings, and the contents of variables are strings as well; a filename is a string, and most files contain strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we type a command, the command's name is a string and each argument is a string.
Variable names are strings, and the contents of variables are strings as well.
A filename is a string, and most files contain strings.
```

They're everywhere!

> An entire command can also be considered a string.
> This is not normally a useful point of view, but it illustrates the fact that parts of strings can sometimes be considered strings in their own right.
> A string which is part of a larger string is called a substring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A string is made up of a bunch of smaller substrings.
An entire command can be considered a single string, with each component of the command being a substring.
```

Strings do not have any intrinsic meaning.
Their meaning is defined by how and where they are used.

Let's try another example.

> With the editor, write a shopping list and save it with the filename "list", and use `cat` to print it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With a file editor, write a shopping list and save it to a file named `list`, then use `cat` to print it:
```

```bash
$ cat list
shampoo
tissues
milk (skim, not whole)
```

We typed a command: `cat list`.
The shell reads this command as a string, and then divides it into the substrings `cat` and `list`.

> As far as the shell is concerned, `list` has no meaning, it's just a string with four characters in it.
> `cat` receives the argument `list`, which is a string of a filename.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As far as Bash is concerned, `cat` and `list` have no meaning, they are just strings with three and four characters.
Since `cat` is the first word in the command, Bash looks for a program named `cat` and executes it with the argument `list`.
```

The string `list` has become meaningful because of how it was used.

The file happens to contain some text, which we see on our terminal.

> The entire file content — taken as a whole — is a string, but that string is not meaningful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The entire file content — taken as a whole — is a string, and that string is not meaningful.
```

However, if we divide the file into _lines_ (and therefore treat each line as a separate string), then we see each individual _line_ has meaning.

We can divide the final line into words, but these words are not meaningful by themselves.
We can't buy "(skim" at the store, and we might get the wrong kind of "milk".
Dividing the lines into words is not a useful thing to do in this example.

> But the shell doesn't know any of this — only we do!

Reviewer 2: Should we make a note about "Bash" vs "the shell"?

Author: Good point. I need an introductory paragraph "what is bash" and "what is a shell".

> So, when we are dealing with commands, data, and variables — all of which are just strings to the shell — we have all the responsibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we are dealing with commands, data, and variables — all of which are just strings to the shell — we have all the responsibility.
```

We need to be sure everything that needs to be separated is separated properly, and everything that needs to stay together stays together properly.
We'll touch on these concepts repeatedly as we continue.

## Types of commands

> Bash understands several different types of commands: aliases, functions, builtins, keywords, and executables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bash understands several different types of commands: aliases, functions, builtins, keywords, and executables.
Note, these are all _commands_ and all act in a very similar manner.
```

> Aliases are only enabled in interactive shells, not shell scripts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Aliases are only enabled by default in interactive shells, not shell scripts.
```

We won't cover them here.

### Functions

A function contains shell commands, and acts very much like a small script; they can even take arguments and create local variables.

> When a function is called, the commands in it are executed. Functions will be covered in depth later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a function is called, the commands in it are executed.
Functions will be covered in depth later.
```

### Builtins

Bash has some basic commands built into it, such as: `cd` (change directory), `echo` (write output), and so on.
They can be thought of as functions that are already provided.

### Keywords

Keywords are like builtins, with the main difference being that keywords are actually Bash syntax and may be parsed using special rules.
For example, `[` is a Bash builtin, while `[[` is a Bash keyword; they are both used to test for a variety of conditions.
Here we try to use them to compare the words "a" and "b" lexicographically:

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

```bash
$ [ a < b ]
-bash: b: No such file or directory
$ [[ a < b ]]
```

> The first example returns an error because, as usual, Bash treats `<` as a file redirection operator and attempts to redirect the nonexistent file `b` to the command `[ a ]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first example returns an error because, using regular command parsing, Bash treats `<` as a file redirection operator and attempts to redirect the nonexistent file `b` to the command `[ a ]`.
```

The second example works because Bash parses words between `[[` and `]]` using different rules that don't use `<` for redirection.

### Executables

> The last kind of command that can be executed by Bash is an _executable_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last kind of command that can be executed by Bash is an _executable_.
These are executable files (programs) on your computer's filesystem which you can run.
```

(Executables may also be called _external commands_ or _applications_.)

> Executables are commonly invoked by typing only their name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Executables are commonly invoked by typing only their name; the complete path to the file is typically not needed.
```

> This can be done because a pre-defined variable makes known to Bash a list of common, executable, file paths.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be done because Bash uses a pre-defined variable which helps it find the location of common executable files.
```

This variable is called `PATH`.
It is a set of directory names separated by colons (e.g. `/usr/bin:/bin`). 
When a command is specified (e.g. `myprogram`, or `ls`) without a file path (and it isn't an alias, function, builtin or keyword), Bash searches through the directories in `PATH`.

> The search over the directories is done in order, from left to right, to see whether they contain an executable with the given name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The the directories are searched in order, from left to right, to see whether they contain an executable with the given name.
```

> If the executable is outside a known path... the executables file path will need to be defined. For an executable in the current directory, use `./myprogram`; if it's in the directory `/opt/somedirectory`, use `/opt/somedirectory/myprogram`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the executable is outside a known path, the executable's file path will need to be specified.
For the `myprogram` executable in the current directory, use `./myprogram`; if it's in the directory `/opt/somedirectory`, use `/opt/somedirectory/myprogram`.
```

> Tip — The `type` command can be used to get a description of the command type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tip — The `type` command can be used to get details about the command type:
```

```bash
$ type rm
rm is hashed (/bin/rm)
$ type cd
cd is a shell builtin
```

## Scripts

> A _script_ is basically a sequence of commands in a file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _script_ is a sequence of commands saved in a file.
```

Bash reads the file and processes the commands in order.
It moves on to the next command only when the current one has ended.

> (The exception being if a command has been specified to run asynchronously, in the background. Don't worry too much about this case yet — we'll learn about how that works later on.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exception being if a command has been specified to run asynchronously (in the background).
Don't worry too much about this case yet — we'll learn about how that works later on.
```

> Virtually any example that exists on the command line in this guide can also be used in a script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any command line example in this guide can also be used in a script.
```

Making a script is easy.
Begin by making a new file, and put this on the first line:

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

```

The header is called an _interpreter directive_ (it is also called a _hashbang_ or **_shebang_**).
It specifies that `/bin/bash` is to be used as the interpreter when the file is used as the executable in a command.
When the OS's kernel executes a _non-binary file_, it reads the first line of the file.
If the line begins with `#!`, the kernel uses the line to determine the interpreter to relay the file to.
(There are other valid ways to do this as well, see below.)
The `#!` must be at the very start of the file, with no spaces or blank lines before it.
Our script's commands will appear on separate lines below this.

Tip — Instead of `#!/bin/bash` , you could use

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
```

`env` searches `$PATH` for the executable named by its first argument (in this case, "bash").
For a more detailed explanation of this technique and how it differs from plain ol' `#!/bin/bash`, see [this question in StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16365130/what-is-the-difference-between-usr-bin-env-bash-and-usr-bin-bash/16365367#16365367).

Please do not be fooled by scripts or examples on the Internet that use `/bin/sh` as the interpreter.
**`sh` is not `bash`!**

> Bash itself is a "sh-compatible" shell (meaning that it can run most 'sh' scripts and carries much of the same syntax) however, the opposite is not true; some features of Bash will break or cause unexpected behavior in `sh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bash itself is a "sh-compatible" shell (meaning that it can run most `sh` scripts and carries much of the same syntax) however, the opposite is not true; some features of Bash will break or cause unexpected behavior in `sh`.
In fact, there is no single `sh` shell.
There are many shell implementations which support POSIX-sh syntax.
Depending on your OS, when you run `sh` you might actually be executing Bash, ash, dash or some other shell.
```

<!--

> Also, please refrain from giving scripts a .sh extension. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, please refrain from giving scripts a `.sh` extension. 
```

Author: I commented this out because we use `.sh` extensions in the track. I think it should be deleted.

> It serves no purpose, and it's completely misleading (since it's going to be a bash script, not an sh script).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It serves no purpose and it's completely misleading (since it's likely going to be a Bash script, not an sh script).
```

-->

~~~~exercism/caution
It is perfectly fine to use Windows to write scripts.
Avoid, however, using Notepad.
"Microsoft Notepad" can only make files with DOS-style line-endings.

> DOS-style line-endings end with two characters: a Carriage Return (ASCII CR; 0xD) and a Line Feed (ASCII LF; 0xA) character.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DOS-style line-endings end with two characters: a Carriage Return (ASCII CR; 0xD; `\r`) and a Line Feed (ASCII LF; 0xA; `\n`) character.
```

Bash understands line-endings with only Line Feed characters.

> As a result, the Carriage Return character will cause an unexpected surprise if one doesn't know it's there (very weird error messages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, the Carriage Return character will cause an unexpected surprise if one doesn't know it's there (very weird error messages).
If you don't know it is there, it can be hard to spot (as it is invisible in most file editors).
```

Reviewer: Should it say "in most file editors" or should it say in "many file editors"?  Also is "file editor" perhaps redundant.  What other kind of editor would we be using (and does it matter)?

> If at all possible, use a more capable editor like Vim, Emacs, kate, GEdit... 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If at all possible, use a more capable editor like Vim, Emacs, kate, GEdit, Notepad++... 
```

> If one doesn't, the carriage returns will need to be removed from the scripts before running them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you used Notepad to write a script, the carriage returns will need to be removed from the scripts before running them.
```

Reviewer: I would not single out `Notepad`, or any single editor, unless you also say "as an example" or similar statement.  It gives the idea that maybe this is the only editor to look out for with this problem.

~~~~

Once the script file has been created, it can be executed by doing:

```bash
$ bash myscript
```

In this example, we execute the _command_ `bash` and tell it to read the script that we gave as an _argument_.

> When we do it like this, the `#!` line is just a _comment_, Bash does not do anything at all with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we do it like this, the `#!` line is just a _comment_; the kernel uses it to find an interpreter but Bash does not do anything at all with it.
```

Alternatively, we can give our scripts executable permissions.

> With this method, instead of calling Bash manually, we can execute the script as an application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this method we can execute the script as an application instead of calling Bash manually:
```

```bash
$ chmod +x myscript  # Mark the file as executable.
$ ./myscript         # Now, myscript can be executed directly instead of having to pass it to bash.
```

> When we run the command this way, the operating system (OS) uses the `#!` line to determine what interpreter to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we run the command this way, the operating system (OS) uses the `#!` line to determine which interpreter to use.
```

# Introduction

Before we start, what is the Bash track on Exercism about?
It is about learning to write programs using Bash.
The emphasis is on using only Bash to solve problems, although there are no restrictions on calling out to external tools.

It is not about how to use Bash as an interactive shell.
You won't learn about how to customize your prompt, how to configure your command history, or other interactive-only features.

On with the lesson!

## Bash Fundamentals: Commands and Arguments

Bash reads commands from its input (which is usually either a terminal or a file).
Each line of input that it reads is treated as a _command_ — an instruction to be carried out.
(There are a few advanced cases, such as commands that span multiple lines, that will be gotten to later.)

Bash divides each line into words that are demarcated by a whitespace character (spaces and tabs).
The first word of the line is the name of the command to be executed.
All the remaining words become _arguments_ to that command (options, filenames, etc.).

> Assume we're in an empty directory... (to try these commands, create an empty directory called `test` and enter that directory by running: `mkdir test; cd test`):

Reviewer 2: How much OS level stuff do we want to cover. Should we introduce "directories" and "current directory" or "being" in a directory?

Author: no.

```bash

> $ ls              # List files in the current directory (no output, no files).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ ls              # List files in the current directory (no files so no output).
```

Also, notice that the files that were created by touch are no different than the first time.
The amount of whitespace between arguments does not matter!
This is important to know.
For example:

```bash
$ echo This is a test.
This is a test.
$ echo This    is    a    test.
This is a test.
```

`echo` is a command that prints its arguments to standard output (which in our case is the terminal).
In this example, we provide the `echo` command with four arguments: 'This', 'is', 'a', and 'test.'.
`echo` takes these arguments, and prints them out one by one with a space in between each argument.
In the second case, the exact same thing happens.
The extra spaces make no difference.
Bash splits the command into five words: the `echo` command and the four arguments.
`echo` does not know how spaces were originally between the words.

If we want to print the extra whitespace, we need to pass the sentence as one single argument.
We can do this by using [quotes][Quotes]:

```bash
$ echo "This    is    a    test."
This    is    a    test.
```

Quotes group everything inside them into a _single argument_.

> The argument is '`This    is    a    test.`' including those specific space characters.

Reviewer 2: The example uses double quotes. This is using single quotes. Should those be consistent? Should we call out single vs double quotes? Should the quotes in inside the backticks? Should they be omitted? Are they confusing or helpful?
